+++
date = "2019-05-20T09:00:00-04:00"
draft = false
title = "Australia Day 0"
categories = [ "Travel", "Australia", "2019 Australia Exploration" ]
flights = [ "AC759", "QF12" ]

+++

Our trip to Australia began around lunchtime on Saturday, May 18, 2019. We had scheduled a pickup with United Taxi at 12:15 PM, and the driver was several minutes early. We had finished packing the night before, so we were ready and waiting to go. We got into the cab and had an uneventful drive to Pearson. The first leg of our trip was on Air Canada, and so we got out at Terminal 1 and proceeded to the US Checkin section. We got our boarding passes automatically, but had to line up and wait to speak with an agent to get our bag tags. It turns out the agent simply had to confirm that our Australian visas had been properly processed, and once that was confirmed we were good to go. The security and customs lines were incredibly short, and we had lots of time once we were in the secure part of the terminal ahead of boarding. We had a late lunch at Walburgers, then paced around the terminal before boarding. The boarding process began on time, and being in Zone 2 we were on the plane quickly. The A321 had , had an uneventful checkin and then waited around for our first flight, on Air Canada, to LAX. It was an uneventful flight, it took off a bit late. I watched First Man, about Neil Armstrong, along with the comedy Tag. I finished the flight with some episodes of Brooklyn 99.

We had an easy connection in LAX, there was no need to go through security again, we were able to walk from Terminal 6 where we arrived to Terminal B, the International Terminal, in about 10 minutes. Two long tunnels and one high bridge later we were in the international section. It was fairly quiet, we walked from end to end and saw all the planes getting ready to reach across the globe. We had a quick dinner at Starbucks, and then continued wandering. We knew we had a long way to go and wanted our legs to be nice and stretched.

We boarded QF12, an Q380, quickly and uneventfully. We were in Row 68, which sounds like it is right at the back but we were actually overwing. We ended up pushing back about an hour late due to expected fog and potential re-fueling required, however once we were in the air the flight was uneventful. We almost got missed by the dinner crew as they were serving food, but Todd was able to flag someone down. We spent about 10 hours dozing off and on - they kept the lights dimmed for the majority of the flight which made this easy. We were served breakfast a couple hours before landing, and then I watched Captain America - Winter Soldier and spent about an hour reading.

We disembarked, cleared customs and immigration with no issues, and were out around 8:30 AM. It was a bit later than expected due to the delay in LAX, but it was a beautiful morning.

The trip to Iceland began mid-afternoon on Tuesday, September 19, 2017. The flight I was scheduled on, WW214, was scheduled to departed from Pearson at 7 PM, so I went into the office and spent the morning and early afternoon finalizing some work projects. I left the office around 2:30 PM, drove home, quickly changed into more comfortable travelling clothes and packed my bags into the car, and left Kitchener just before 3 PM. Thankfully traffic was reasonably light, and I was able to arrive and park at the Park 'N Fly Economy lot shortly after 4 PM. I had checked in online the night before, but I still had to line up to drop off my bag at the WOWAir counter in Terminal 3. The line was short; there was only one WOWAir flight being handled at the baggage counter. I was meeting Kate, Dave, Chris and Susan in Iceland, so after dropping off my bag I proceeded through security on my own.

The security line moved quickly, and shortly after 5 PM I was standing in the Terminal 3 food court. There wasn't going to be any food provided on the flight, so I had dinner at the food court. There were a few decent choices, and I settled on a burrito. It was alright, nothing fancy. As this was the beginning of a vacation, I splurged and ordered the guacamole. After dinner I filled up my 1L Nalgene water bottle, since WOWAir doesn't even include free water. Boarding started right at 6 PM, which was earlier than most other carriers would have done, but it worked well and everyone was on the plane ahead of our 7 PM departure time. The plane took off from one of the runways farthest from the terminal at Pearson; we drove well past the de-icing area in order to reach the runway.

Once in the air the flight was uneventful. I was originally seated beside a couple who was travelling with friends, however they ended up swapping with another gentleman to be closer to their friends. Luckily the person they swapped with did not have a seatmate, so we ended up having the middle seat open which supplied a bit more room. The seating was more cramped than I was expecting - other carriers flying the A321 tend to leave a bit more leg room between the rows. I planned on spending the entire flight resting, however I was unable to get more than a few minutes of sleep here and there, so when we landed at the Keflavík International Airport at 12:15 AM EDT (4:15 AM local time) I was pretty tired.
