+++
date = "2019-05-31T20:30:00+10:00"
draft = true
title = "Australia Day 12"
categories = [ "Travel", "Australia", "2019 Australia Exploration" ]

+++

Today we took a trip down to the Royal National Park to see the coast and enjoy the park. We got up around 6:30, had a quick breakfast at the AirBnB, and got ready to go. We walked from the AirBnB to a Budget car rental located at King's Cross, which was only a short 10 minute walk away. I had reserved the car the night before, and when we showed up just after 8:00 we had no issues picking up the car. We headed out in some rush hour traffic, our first destination of the day was the parking lot to [Wedding Cake Rock](https://www.nationalparks.nsw.gov.au/things-to-do/lookouts/wedding-cake-rock). This sandstone rock formation, located on the eastern coast of Australia, is notable as it stands on its own as a bright white slab of rock amongst the otherwise sand-coloured stone. The area isn't directly reachable by car - there is a parking lot at the trailhead, just outside Bundeena. We arrived at the trailhead several minutes before 10:00, and headed out on the hike.

It was still fairly cool at 10:00, the sun hadn't really had time to warm things up yet, so we bundled up with jackets and pants on. The hike to Wedding Cake Rock gave us some pretty views back towards Sydney, and gave us the opportunity to enjoy the company of some birds that were flying along the bushes that lined the trail. We didn't see any other wildlife on our hike, but there were a lot of birds around us. The path to Wedding Cake Rock also took us to [Marley Head](https://www.nationalparks.nsw.gov.au/things-to-do/walking-tracks/bundeena-drive-to-marley-walk), a lookout on the top of a cliff that gave a great view back of Marley Beach. We arrived at Marley Head after about an hour of hiking, shortly before 11:00. We took some photos, took in the view of the ocean, then followed an elevated trail along the coastline to Wedding Cake Rock. This was a nice change of pace - the hike from the parking lot to Marley Head was rough, mostly sand and rock, and so level plastic grating was a nice change.

We reached Wedding Cake Rock shortly after 11:30. The trail to the lookout has some heavy brush on both sides, so we didn't really get a good look at the structure until we were practically there. You used to be able to walk right onto the rock formation, however park geologists have determined that the rock itself is very unstable and so last year a large fence was erected to prevent people from reaching the unstable sandstone. This fence, while understandable, did take away a bit of the majesty of the formation, unfortunately. We were able to hike up a small side trail to get to a viewing area that gave a mostly unobstructed view of the rock outcropping, which was nice. We spent a few minutes looking out over the ocean before turning back and returning to the car.

It was around 12:30 when we completed the return hike and made it back to the car. By this point in the day the sun was high in the sky and it was quite a bit warmer than when we had left the car - both Todd and I had removed our coats and I had applied a first layer of sunscreen. We were getting hungry, but decided to drive to our next location before eating. A short 15 minute drive later, we arrived at [Wattamolla Beach](https://www.nationalparks.nsw.gov.au/things-to-do/picnic-areas/wattamolla-picnic-area). Here we unpacked our lunch at a picnic table and enjoyed our sandwiches while some kookaburras watched us from the tree overhead. After lunch, we walked around the park area for a bit before taking the trail down to the beach. The beach was nice and sandy, but the ocean was pretty rough so we didn't see anyone swimming or surfing. I took some photos of the surf breaking on some rocks out where the beach ended, and then we did a small walking loop around the lake that sat behind the beach. We spent about an hour exploring before heading back to the car.

We drove on to our final destination in the park, [Garie Beach](https://www.nationalparks.nsw.gov.au/things-to-do/picnic-areas/garie-beach-picnic-area). It was a short 15 minute drive, and this was the first beach that was immediately reachable from the parking lot. We walked down onto the sand, and took in the ocean views. We both stuck our hands into the ocean, however I wasn't paying attention and a wave came and got my feet soaking wet while I was reaching down into the water. We didn't spend long here - it was getting a bit late in the day and we needed to return the car before 17:45. We snapped a few photos then turned around and began the drive back to Sydney.

We left the park shortly before 15:30, and unfortunately ran into some rush hour traffic on the drive back to Sydney. We ended up returning the car shortly after 17:00, then walked back to the AirBnB as the sun was going down. While we were in the park the season 11 finale of RuPaul's Drag Race had aired, so after we got back into the AirBnB we pulled out my laptop and watched the finale. We didn't want to have the ending spoiled for us! The finale was enjoyable, and both Todd and I were happy with the winner of the season. After finishing the episode we freshened up and headed out for dinner.

We had dinner at Pricillas, the restaurant in [The Imperial](https://imperialerskineville.com.au/), which is a cornerstone of the Sydney gay community. They combine dinner and drag into an evening of fabulousness. We arrived shortly before 19:15, and luckily while we didn't have a reservation we were able to be seated. The first show started just as we were placing our drink orders, and we watched a pair of drag queens lip sync to three different songs. We celebrated our trip with a cocktail, then had some delicious food as more drag  performances took place on a stage about 15 feet from where we were sitting. The show was mostly lipsync performances, though there was an audience participation moment where two people were brought on stage and had to lip sync to 'My Heart Will Go On'. They did alright. We had a great time, and left The Imperial about 2 hours after arriving. We returned back to the AirBnB for an early night.
