+++
date = "2019-06-03T23:00:00+10:00"
draft = true
title = "Australia Day 15"
categories = [ "Travel", "Australia", "2019 Australia Exploration" ]
flights = [ "QF73", "AC750" ]

+++

We were on a mission from the time we woke up this morning - we had to be packed up and checked out of the AirBnB by 11:00. We didn't get up early but also didn't really sleep in, and after having breakfast and making lunch for the day we cleaned things up, took out the trash and recycling, and did some final packing. The one downside of an AirBnB is that you don't just get to leave your mess, so it's important to budget some extra time into the schedule to handle the housekeeping items. That being said we were completely packed and ready to go at 10:15, so we left a bit early. We returned the key and then walked to Central station.

When we got to Central station we found a baggage storage location and checked in our suitcases for the morning. After dropping off our bags we caught the subway back to Circular Quay, and walked to the [New South Wales Art Gallery](https://www.artgallery.nsw.gov.au/) through the Royal Botanical Gardens. We took mostly the same path as last night, which gave us a view of the exhibits in the daytime. It was much more impressive at night.

We got to the art gallery around 11:45, and checked our backpacks at the door. The permanent exhibits at the art gallery were free to the public, which was a nice surprise. The vast majority of the things we saw in Sydney were free to the public, which seems like a really good way to encourage people to visit museums. We started by looking through the 19th century Australian art wing, and then also saw the 19th century European art wing. While most of the art were paintings, there were also some statues (both marble and bronze). We moved on and saw the Modern Australian art wing on the second lower level, and then finished by seeing some of the Australian Aboriginal art (including some impressive bark paintings). We left the museum shortly after 13:30, then had lunch in the park across the road from the museum.

After lunch we walked back to Circular Quay, recharged our Opal cards for our trip back to the airport, then hopped on the first train going to Central. We made a quick detour to a Woolworth's grocery store across the road from Central to pick up some candy for the plane (a couple of Mars bars and a bag of skittles) before retrieving our suitcases. We got onto the T8 line and took the train to the airport, arriving shortly after 15:00.

We were booked onto Qantas 73, departing Sydney at 17:40 and flying to San Francisco. We then had a couple of hours in San Francisco ahead of our connection, Air Canada 750, departing for Toronto. We arrived at the airport with lots of time to spare. We checked in our bags without issue, cleared Australian customs and security easily, and found ourselves with a fair bit of time before boarding. We wandered through the terminal a bit before finding some chairs to relax in. We browsed the Internet until about 16:15, when we picked up a snack at the McDonald's and then headed to our gate. Boarding was scheduled for 16:55, however they didn't allow people into the seating area for the gate until then. They had a second layer of security that people had to go through before they could enter the seating area, and they didn't start that process until almost 17:00. We were at the front of the line and got to the gate area, and then waited for them to begin boarding. They started the business and premium economy boarding around 17:10, and shortly after began boarding economy. We were seated in Row 68, so we were part of the first group to board, and luckily there was no contention for bin space so we were able to keep our bags overhead. The flight was a bit delayed taking off as we were waiting on a few people, so we didn't take off until around 18:15.

In order to help get back onto Eastern time I decided to stay awake for the entirety of the flight to San Francisco, saving the sleep for the San Francisco - Toronto leg. This would ensure that I would be tired enough to fall asleep upon arriving back in Kitchener, and allowing me to get up at a somewhat normal time the next day. I watched several Marvel movies on the flight, including Captain Marvel and The Avengers, then spent time working on this blog. I also watched The Avengers: Age of Ultron and Mr. and Mrs. Smith - as the flight went on I started getting tired and was unable to concentrate on reading so movies helped pass the time.

We landed slightly behind schedule in San Francisco, disembarked, and got into the US customs line. Even though we were just transiting through SF we still had to clear US customs, luckily as Canadian passport holders we were able to go into the line for US passport holders. We found ourselves getting into line shortly after 14:20, unfortunately it seemed that another large plane had arrived shortly before ours as the line was very long, and it was not moving particularly quickly. We didn't really have any choice but to wait - it ultimately took over an hour before we managed to see a US customs officer who cleared us quickly. We picked up our bags from the carousel with about 50 minutes until the plane was scheduled to depart, and then learned we had to go all the way to the Air Canada check-in counter on the departures level to re-check our bags. This was a bit frustrating as boarding was scheduled to start shortly, so we hustled to the Air Canada counter to drop our bags off. On the way Todd noticed that my suitcase had a large rip in it, and the Tim Tams we were bringing back as treats for friends were starting to fall out. It must have been damaged somewhere along the way from Sydney as it was in good condition when we dropped it off. When we got to the Air Canada counter I was able to borrow some packing tape from the agent and hastily wrap the bag along both major axis to avoid having anything spill out on the next flight. We dropped the bags off and were warned that they may not make it onto the plane as takeoff was scheduled in less than an hour from then, which we weren't thrilled about but accepted as long as we were able to make it home.

As we left the check-in counter we were advised to rush as it as now 15:40 and boarding had begun, so we ran to the security checkpoint and had to ask a few people in front of us to allow us to skip ahead to ensure we made our flight. Luckily people were very accommodating and we were able to get to the gate around 15:55. Luckily boarding had not yet begun, and as we sat down to catch our breath we heard our names being called from the gate. We went up to learn that the plane was so empty they needed to seat people in particular locations on the plane during takeoff to ensure a balanced plane, and we were given new boarding passes with our revised seating info. We were still seated together, just farther back on the plane, but with an empty plane it really didn't make a difference to us. We boarded shortly after 16:00 and took off on schedule at 16:20.

I fell asleep shortly after takeoff and spent the first couple of hours of the flight asleep, however I woke up about halfway through the flight and was unable to fall back asleep. There was actually a fair bit of turbulence on this flight - enough that the pilots descended to a lower altitude to try and smooth out the ride. This was moderately successful, but the seatbelt sign was on for almost a half hour while they sorted things out. It was strange being seated on a plane that was so empty - there couldn't have been more than 30 people on the Airbus A321 we were on, which is designed to seat close to 200 people. I spent the remainder of the flight watching Wonder Woman while Todd watched some TV on his phone.

Our landing at Pearson was smooth and on schedule, we were able to clear customs and retrieve our bags in record time, and we were at the taxi stand shortly after 00:45, waiting for our cab to arrive. We were about 30 minutes ahead of schedule, but the cab picked us up just before 1:00 and we were home slightly before 2:00. We both felt grimy after the almost 20 hours of flying we had just completed so we both took quick showers and then quickly passed out in bed.

