+++
date = "2019-05-20T19:00:00+10:00"
draft = true
title = "Australia Day 1"
categories = [ "Travel", "Australia", "2019 Australia Exploration" ]

+++

Once we had cleared Australian customs our first day in Sydney could begin! We made our way to the subway station attached to the international terminal, as we were planning on taking the train into the city. The New South Wales region has a combined transit system with a single card for payments, named Opal. This card allows you to load money onto it, and then tap it as you get on or off your mode of transport to charge for your trip. We decided it made sense to pick up an Opal card vs. purchasing one-way trip tickets as we were going to be taking public transit for several of our trips and so the discount of having the card would be worth the effort of holding it. We got on the Airport Link train, and about 15 minutes later got off at the Museum station stop. The train was fairly busy, as a number of commuters were on the train, but we were able to find space for ourselves and our bags near the train door. It was a quick, ten minute walk, from the Museum station to the first hotel of our trip, the Sydney Boulevard Hotel. We arrived shortly before 9:00, and checked in without issue. While our room wasn't free, we were given access to the hotel gym and were able to freshen up in the showers there. After having a quick shower and change of clothes we went downstairs to learn that our room was ready - we quickly dropped our bags off then headed out for the day.

The weather was sunny and warm as we began walking towards the harbour. We stumbled up 'Robinson Street' just a few blocks from our hotel, which was an unexpected surprise! We kept walking, and soon reached the Royal Botanical Gardens. We walked on the outskirts of the park, following the path which faces the piers used by the Australian Navy. Here we ran into some <Todd's bird> playing in the trees; we were able to get some fun photos as we passed by. We reached the end of the peninsula, saw Mrs Macquarie's Chair, and then were greeted by a fantastic view of the Sydney Opera House. We took some photos before continuing on, walking on a path that follows the edge of the bay as it continues towards the downtown area. We passed through the main part of the Royal Botanical Gardens, and were treated to a number of beautifully manicured lawns and very well maintained trees.

By this point it was nearly noon and we were starting to get hungry, so we went and found a restaurant on the eastern side of the Circular Quay. We had a nice lunch, and took the opportunity to apply sunscreen as the sun was starting to get strong. We continued walking along the harbour and quickly reached the Sydney Opera House. We were able to get up close to the building, and really appreciate the design of the structure. I hadn't realized that the roof of the building is textured in such a way that it looks kind of like a Faberge egg when the light strikes it, something I learned by seeing it up close. We also got to see how the architects had built rain management troughs directly into the design of the roof; creating channels between tiles that allow the water to follow the curve of the structure into basins at the base of the curved roofs. Unfortunately we were not able to go inside as no shows were on, so we had to satisfy our curiosity from the outside.

We continued on, going past the Circular Quay in search of the Pylon Lookout. The lookout is built into one of the support columns of the Sydney Harbour Bridge, and it gives great views back towards the Sydney Opera House. Due to the sun being lower in the sky (with it being late fall) I had been having issues taking photos of the Opera House without the sun being behind it; going to the bridge would give us better lighting to take photos. Along the way we got to see the Argyle Cut, a set of bridges built over top of a road cut into the hillside, as well as the Argyle Stairs (a narrow staircase that led us up from Argyle Street to the Cahill Expressway (which crosses over top of it). From here we took a glass elevator ride up to the Sydney Harbour Bridge walkway, and walked to the support pylon for some shots back towards the Opera House, and the Downtown Business District.

We continued our journey by crossing under the Sydney Harbour Bridge road at Argyle Street and walked to the Sydney Observatory. This historic location was used to measure weather and keep time, along with being used for celestial explorations. Transit of Venus in 1874. We got to see some of the old measurement equipment used, along with being able to walk up to (but not use) the observation dome. We continued on down towards the Nawi Cove and the walking trails along the water. We walked north around the Barangaroo Reserve, a heavily terraced and landscaped park, before reaching the Walumil Lawns where we were treated to views of the Harbour Bridge from the other side.

While it was only about 15:30 at this point, the sun was starting to go down, so we decided to start heading back in the general direction of our hotel. Our last major stop for the way was to be the Sydney Tower Eye, whose observation platform gives an unobstructed view of much of downtown Sydney. We reached the venue shortly after 16:00, watched the (mostly unnecessary) 4D experience, and then waited for several minutes for an elevator to take us up. We reached the observation area around 16:45, which was right as the sun was getting close to setting. This was actually a good time to head up the tower - while there was a fair bit of glare on the glass we were able to see the city both during the daytime and the early nighttime. The entire cityscape began lighting up shortly after 17:00, as the sun went below the horizon, which transformed the city.

We left the tower about 40 minutes later, then decided to have a quick dinner in the food court of the Westfield mall (which is also where the Tower Eye is located). We were originally planning on going back to the hotel to find our dinner venue, but were afraid we would be too tired and just crash upon returning to the hotel so we ended up setting on some fast Vietnamese food. The meal was quick, tasty and filling - after dinner we walked back to the hotel where we had an early evening. Still getting used to the time zone.

Todd went to bed early, while I worked on this blog. I then watched the series finale of Game of Thrones - using my work VPN I was able to stream the show using my Crave TV subscription.

