+++
date = "2019-05-21T21:00:00+10:00"
draft = false
title = "Australia Day 2"
categories = [ "Travel", "Australia", "2019 Australia Exploration" ]

+++

We woke up at a good time, roughly 7:30, and then had a bit of a leisurely morning. This was going to be our only quiet morning for several days, so we made the most of it. We lazily got up, cleaned ourselves up, and went down to have breakfast at the hotel. It was a hot buffet with a large number of choices, and we made sure to fill up in anticipation of a long day out. We left the hotel shortly after 9:30, and began by walking back to the Anzac memorial about ten minutes from the hotel. The sun was shining brightly as we reached the memorial - the morning fog had not completely lifted, and it shimmered as the sun reached down through the trees lining the path up to the reflecting pool. The monument to the Australian forces that fought in World War 1 is an impressive three story structure. We entered on the main floor, then climbed the stairs to reach the open air second story that contains sculptures and reliefs recognizing 4 major branches of the military - the airmen, the Navy, the Army, and the medical corps. The roof of this hall is impressively tall, and makes people who stand and look up feel insignificantly small. There are thousands of golden stars that decorate the roof of the dome. After taking in this part of the monument we went back down to the main level and walked through several exhibit galleries that show artifacts from WW1, along with reprinted news articles that help to give context to the artifacts. We then went down to the basement floor, part of a recently opened extension to the memorial. Here were more exhibition galleries that detailed the four branches of the military, with particular emphasis on the roles they played during WW1. We ended up spending about an hour visiting all of these parts of the monument.

After we left the memorial we walked back through Hyde Park, heading north towards the water. We went past a fountain with sculptures of characters from antiquity, then headed over to the St. Mary's cathedral. Unfortunately we were not able to enter as there was an active Mass being held, so we continued walking and headed towards the Botanical Gardens. Along the way we passed statues of Queen Victoria and her consort, Prince Albert. We also passed by the Sydney Mint, the oldest public building in the central business district. We took a quick peek inside but there really was not that much to see. We continued on, passing the State Library, before reaching our destination, the Calyx.

The Calyx is a building in the Botanical Gardens that hosts different botanical exhibits - the one we were able to experience was focused on carnivorous plants. They had a large number of Venus fly traps, sundews, honeydews, and pitcher plants all growing. I remember writing a report on these plants in junior high school, and so it was really neat to see all the different types of plants in person. Interestingly, a number of them are not native to Australia but are North American; coming all the way around the world just to see a plant native to North America was a bit amusing.

By this point the Mass had concluded, so we walked back through the park and went to the St. Mary's cathedral. This structure was impressive both on the inside and out, and after taking some time to really appreciate the stained glass windows and the architectural details we continued on.

We were heading to the Museum of Modern art, near Central Quay, but by this point it was around 12:30 and we stopped to get a bite to eat along the way. We had lunch at a cafe not far from the courthouse, which was a nice time to sit and rest our legs. We spent about half an hour eating lunch, then continued on. We took Martin Place down past the cenotaph, and the took George Street down to the waterfront. There was a fair bit of construction on George Street; it looked as if they were installing some new LRT or subway stations along the road. We reached the Museum shortly before 14:00, which gave us shortly over an hour to view the exhibits. There were a number of interesting pieces to appreciate; some noteworthy ones include a series of manta ray carvings 'swimming' under a sea of crystals suspended from the ceiling, a set of small metal tubes connected to rope that had a computer case fan attached halfway down, causing the metal tube to fly about and hit other objects arranged near it to create music, and a set of thirty or so metals poles that were all connected to a synthesizer that used contacts amongst the poles to create music.

The museum was a fun visit, and definitely worthwhile, but we didn't feel that we had really missed anything when we left an hour later. We took the short walk up Argyle Street and the Arglye Stairs to reach our next destination - the Sydney Bridge Walk. The entrance to the walk is based in a support arch underneath the bridge itself, and it is an impressive structure to walk into. We arrived at the requested time, 15:30, and had a few minutes to relax before getting started. Walking on the bridge isn't exactly like going for a stroll in the park - it is necessary to remove anything loose from your pockets, don a fetching grey coverall suit, put on a full body harness, and then attach a headlamp and headphones for visibility at night/hearing what the guide is saying. Once we were all suited up we went through a practice ladder they had setup to get people used to walking while tethered to the bridge, and to help make sure people weren't going to climb down the ladders incorrectly.

The entire preparation process took probably close to an hour, but by about 17:00 we were set and heading out onto the bridge approach span. This early walk was a good way to get into the groove of the climb, and gave us some interesting views of the neighbourhood around the bridge. The first milestone of note was the pylon marking the beginning of the bridge span itself, where we learned the granite visible is actually just there for decoration and provides no load bearing value whatsoever. We then had to walk through some pretty narrow passageways to be able to reach the ladder which we had to climb to reach the support arch of the main span. This was probably the trickiest part to the climb - there were some low beams that everyone had to duck for, and some parts of the pathway were very narrow. Nobody in the group had any issues, and once the ladder piece of the climb was complete we were standing at the beginning of the span, high above the bridge deck and even higher above the water.

This is really where the walk got interesting, as we were actually able to see Sydney proper. The opera house, the central business district, and even north Sydney were all clearly visible. The sun had mostly set by this point, and we were treated to some of the prep work being done ahead of Vivid Sydney. Many of the office towers had light strips installed near their roofs, with high power spotlights pointed upwards at the base of the building to form a synchronized colour display. The bridge itself also had LED strips mounted on the very hand rails we were using for support, which gave the entire experience a very festive vibe. As we climbed higher the sky got darker and the colours became more prominent, really giving us a unique way of experiencing the bridge climb. As we were climbing towards the summit our guide was giving us a bunch of background information on the construction of the bridge, which was fun to listen to. Reaching the top of the 134m bridge structure gave us a fantastic view out over both north and south Sydney, unobstructed by any glass. We were able to spend around ten minutes at the summit looking around and taking in the view - by this point the sun was nowhere to be seen and the colours of Vivid Sydney were in full effect. It was a pretty spectacular moment.

After our pause at the top of the bridge was over we crossed to the other support span, and began the climb down. This gave us the opportunity to see the far side of the city, and also gave us a good view of the Luna park right on the other side of the bridge. The Vivid show did not appear to cross the Bradfield highway, so the far side of the city was not lit up with the same colourful displays, but it was still impressive to see. As we descended the ladder after reaching the end of the support span we were climbing right between the two subway tracks that cross the bridge, I was lucky enough to be on the platform as a train went by. It was a loud and rumbly experience to be so close to a train going full speed ahead on the bridge! The walk back to the building was similar to our approach walk - some tight spaces made more treacherous by the darkness of night but the headlamps helped us find any obstacles and make it back to the departure building safely.

After taking all the equipment off and collecting our things we departed off to find some dinner. It was about 6:45 PM when we left the building - the entire experience lasted just over 3 hours. We found a nice restaurant that wasn't far from our hotel where we had a lovely dinner on the patio. Todd had a lamb dish while I had Barramundi. I have been trying to find typical 'Australian' food without much success, so I decided a somewhat native fish would have to do. We made it back to the hotel shortly before 9 PM, where we had some quiet resting before heading to bed.


