+++
date = "2019-05-22T21:00:00+10:00"
draft = false
title = "Australia Day 3"
categories = [ "Travel", "Australia", "2019 Australia Exploration" ]

+++

We had an early morning; we were booked onto a Tigerair flight departing Sydney for Cairns at 7:15 AM, so we set our alarms for 4:15 AM. Our flight was a domestic one, but we still wanted to be at the airport 90 minutes ahead of the flight, which meant an early start. We woke up at our scheduled time, quickly showered, packed and checked out of the hotel in about 40 minutes; we were walking back to the Museum subway station stop just before 5 AM. We were treated with a beautiful view of the Anzac memorial lit up and nobody in sight as we reached the Museum stop. We caught the 5:16 subway to the airport, reaching the terminal shortly after 5:30 AM. The airport wasn't super busy, so we were able to check in our bags and clear security in about 15 minutes, which gave us lots of time to grab breakfast. I had a bacon and egg McMuffin from McDonalds, while Todd had a bagel and a donut from Krispy Kreme. Boarding went quickly, and we were able to have an on time departure.

The flight to Cairns was uneventful; I spent most of the flight reading 'Caleda's War' while Todd napped. We landed in Cairns at around 10:30 AM, grabbed our bags without issue and stepped out to a warm, humid and overcast morning. The Uber pickup point was a dedicated area past the taxi stand, and it only took a few minutes for the Uber driver to reach us once we booked it. We enjoyed the weather under a covered stand while we waited. The drive to our hotel, the Holiday Inn Cairns Harbourfront, was short. We were able to check in early, and even got a waterfront view, which was a nice surprise. We spent a few minutes relaxing in the hotel room before we started walking from the hotel to the downtown. Unfortunately, about 30 seconds into our walk the rain started, and it ended up being heavy enough that we retreated back to the hotel to wait for the noon shuttle.

The shuttle dropped us off at the entrance to the night market in Cairns, which put us smack dab in the middle of the downtown area. I had been looking for lunch options on the ride over, and we settled on a Thai place just steps from the night market entrance. Todd ordered a Massaman curry while I had their Pad Thai; both dishes were delicious. The rain had let up by this point, so we walked down to the waterfront to get a better view of the ocean. There was a pretty elaborate pool/mock beach right beside the waterfront that looked like some fun, but we hadn't packed our bathing suits so decided to keep moving.

We walked several blocks north to reach the dive shop that we had booked our liveaboard through, in order to check in and get things ready for the next day. We had chosen Pro Dive Cairns based on a number of positive Google reviews, and the first impression of the store and the staff backed up the reviews I had read. We were checked in quickly, had a good overview of the schedule given to us, and then we were on our way without any issues. As we already had the mask, snorkel, fins and boots we didn't need to get sized for any equipment, which made the check in process much simpler.

We decided to walk around downtown Cairns a bit to see what the city had to offer. We went a few more blocks north to the Cairns railway station, in order to get a sense of where it was ahead of our trip to Kuranda. The station wasn't anything special, but it was easy to find. Along the way we discovered a shopping mall that we ended up getting a few things from - snacks for our time on the liveabord. We then started walking back to the hotel. We passed by a cathedral that was hardly more than a buliding, but had a pleasant walk along the esplanade. We found some cockatoos playing in the trees lining the pathway which was nice. Our walk back was thankfully not interrupted by any rainstorms and we made it back to the hotel dry.

We then spent some time relaxing. We had made it back to the hotel shortly before 3 PM, and with nothing major scheduled Todd took this opportunity to check out the hotel pool. The Holiday Inn has a very nice pool that he enjoyed while I continued reading. I also checked on our AirBnB reservation and did some last-minute trip planning before dinner. We left for dinner shortly before 6 PM. On the recommendation of Google Maps we went to an Italian place that served both pasta and pizza - we both felt in the mood for pizza so it was an easy decision. The pizza was delicious - we ordered a single family-sized pizza and just managed to finish it between the two of us. We had an early evening afterwards - I booked a rental car to give us the freedom to visit some of the notable sites in the rainforest, while Todd went to bed early.

