+++
date = "2019-05-24T10:15:00+10:00"
draft = false
title = "Australia Day 5"
categories = [ "Travel", "Australia", "2019 Australia Exploration" ]

+++

We woke up at 6:30 AM, and were greeted by a gorgeous sunrise over the reef. We had our first dive of the day scheduled at 7:15 AM, so after quickly getting dressed in our bathing suits we were out on the deck getting suited up. Our third dive was pretty simple, skill wise - we demonstrated descending just with a visual reference, and when at the bottom we completely removed our masks and then practiced putting them back on and clearing them. I had to be careful to keep my eyes closed until I was sure no water remained as I had my contacts in, however it went smoothly. We then showed we could orally inflate our BCD underwater to establish neutral bouyancy; once we had completed this task we got to explore the new dive site (the Three Sisters). This site is so named because of three rock formations that look like sisters, and these formations had tons of coral built up on and around them. We saw a small white-tipped reef shark shortly after we began our exploration, just chilling on the sandy bottom of the ocean. It was really cool. As we continued swimming around we saw a unicorn fish, and some really dense schools of fish swim around us. The wildlife was much more abundant today as compared to yesterday, and it was really exciting to experience.

We ascended and had no surface skills, so just got back onto the boat. We were greeted by a hot breakfast of scrambled eggs and bacon, with fresh cut fruit, yoghurt and toast. It was a nice warm-up after being in the water so early after waking up. Our second dive didn't start until 11:15 AM, so we had a couple hours to relax, socialize with others on the boat, and recap the dive. At around 10:30 AM we started getting our gear sorted out, and right at 11:15 AM we jumped back in for our last training dive. This dive took place at the same dive site, and was focused on navigation using a compass, which was something we'd read about during the course prep but something we hadn't yet done. We started on the surface by navigating to a specified heading away from the boat, then did a free descent down to the bottom. We then swam around the third sister, seeing a large marble ray sleeping on the bottom of the ocean floor, several large fan-shaped coral growing sideways from a rock outcropping, and swam through several large schools of fish that were feeding near the coral. One side of the third sister dropped pretty deep down into the ocean floor, but we only went down 16 metres. This was a good opportunity for us to practice our depth management. We finished the dive with some underwater navigation, the ascended to the surface and watched Elena demonstrate how to get an unconcious person onto the boat. It was a bit tricky as the waves were pretty large at this point, but we got through the demo and officially completed our open water checkout dives! We were officially PADI Open Water divers.

After drying off and coming inside, we sat down for a lunch of cooked chicken and potatoes, salads and coleslaw. The food was pretty good, and I went back for seconds. As lunch was finishing up the crew started getting the boat prepared to move, and once we were ready the captain took us to a new reef for the remainder of the dives. The reef we ended up at, Flynn reef, was a reasonably short distance from Milln reef so it didn't take us long to get there. The third dive of the day wasn't scheduled to start until 3:15 PM, so while we waited I read and Todd took a nap. At approximately 2:45 PM the divemaster got everyone together and gave us our first offical dive briefing. We were to dive at Gordon's mooring, on Flynn reef. The scheduled route was a bit complex, so we were a bit nervous as we got into the water for our first dive alone, however once we reached the bottom and I saw the first landmark I started to get some confidence. We started by swimming through the gates just past the mooring blocks, where we encountered a large turtle just gracefully swimming along, minding his own business. After a short pause we continued on to a set of rock outcroppings that we then kept on our right. We proceeded along the towering wall of coral until we reached what was dubbed the 'fish bowl', as it was a somewhat circular area flanked by coral where a number of fish were swimming and resting. We didn't go much farther, instead we turned around and returned to the gates for our safety stop before ascending. It was a bit nerve wracking as I was worried that we would get lost, but after having successfully completed the dive many of my fears went away.

After the dive there was cake in the galley, which made a nice post-dive, pre-dinner snack. We had dinner around 6 PM, with the remainder of the afternoon being occupied by reading and relaxing. Dinner was lasagna, salad and garlic bread. The meal was really good, and I was super full when it was over. We didn't have a lot of time to rest after dinner as our last dive of the day was scheduled for 7:15 PM, and the dive briefing began at around 6:45 PM. We were going to dive the same site that we had done on our previous dive (Gordon's mooring), however since this was our first night dive we were going with a guide. It was a bit windy as we were getting geared up, so we were happy to get into the water. It was a bit spooky as we saw a number of large shark-shaped animals swimming around the boat, however it turns out they were just trevelli and not sharks. None the less we jumped in, descended, and began following our guide. We were each equipped with a small flashlight in our right hand a lightly coloured glow beacon on our tanks so we could follow the person in front of us. Shortly after passing through the gates we saw our first turtle, named Brian, sleeping on the ocean floor underneath a coral outcropping. It was said that Brian is estimated to be 89 years old, which helps give some context into how large this animal was. Shortly after encountering Brian we saw another large sea turtle that was on the surface breathing. As we watched it began to descend, and gracefully floated down into the coral and out of sight. As we continued along we saw a number of other fish, including a triggerfish that was sheltered in some hard coral. As we conducted our safety stop underneath the boat we turned off our flashlights with the hope that a shark would swim by, unfortunately we didn't see any sharks.

The dive completed, we got back onto the boat, had a shower to rinse off, then quickly went to bed. We were exhausted from a busy day of diving!



