+++
date = "2019-05-26T21:00:00+10:00"
draft = true
title = "Australia Day 7"
categories = [ "Travel", "Australia", "2019 Australia Exploration" ]

+++

Today was exciting! I had rented a car for the day, with the plan of doing a driving tour south of Cairns to see a number of sites in the Wooroonooran National Park. We woke up early, got ready, took an Uber to the Cairns Central grocery store and picked up some supplies for the day, then walked over to the [Budget](https://goo.gl/maps/t5VwGHzfHXn4Rzew7) car rental office. We had booked ourselves a sedan, however they did not have any available so we were upgraded to an SUV (a Nissan XXX). We stopped by McDonald's on the way out of town so I could get a coffee, then started our drive south.

The first site we visited was called [Clamshell Falls](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clamshell_Falls), and it was about a 50 minute drive. The sun was out and it was a gorgeous drive. The falls themselves were located about 3 km from the parking lot, so we packed up our bag and began the walk. It was a fairly hilly climb, but the path was paved so it wasn't too difficult. The sun was out and the temperature was in the high 20's so we were feeling pretty warm by the time we reached the falls. We scrambled down from the path to the river and took a few photos of the falls from the banks of the river below. The falls were reasonably impressive, but not really substantial. It was nice to cool off beside the river, however. After a short break we turned around and returned to the car. In total we spent about 2 hours at Clamshell falls.

We drove back down to the highway and continued to our next destination, [Babinda Boulders](https://www.cairns.qld.gov.au/facilities-sport-leisure/parks/babinda-boulders). We arrived after about 50 minutes of driving through some reasonably heavy rain. This site is a popular swimming destination, and after the hike up to Clamshell Falls we were happy to have a place to cool off. We had a quick lunch of sandwiches and snacks that we had picked up at the grocery store, then grabbed our swim trunks, quickly changed, and then went for a dip in the cool water. It felt super refreshing, and while the first steps into the water were uncomfortable it quickly became relaxing as we acclimatized to the water. There was a surprisingly strong current in the water, so we didn't spend more than ten minutes swimming before we got out and dried off. We were back in the car shortly before 13:00, and headed off to our next destination.

We arrived at the parking lot of [Josephine Falls](https://parks.des.qld.gov.au/parks/wooroonooran-josephine-falls/) about twenty minutes after leaving Babinda Boulders. We drove through intermittent rain and sun, however it was sunny when we pulled into the parking lot. The falls were a short 700 m walk from the parking lot, so with my trusty camera in hand we headed up. The pathway here was also paved and pretty easy to navigate, and when we reached the viewing area at the lower part of the falls we were able to walk out onto a viewing platform constructed just to let people see the falls. Unfortunately this is when the weather decided to turn, and it began raining with a vengeance. We quickly hurried up to the top viewing platform and were able to take a few photos before we were completely soaked. As we walked back down to the car the rain let up slightly, but it didn't really matter as we were already drenched. We dried off as best we could with the towel we had in the car, then drove off as the sun started to peak through the clouds.

As an aside, one of the things that made today special were the snacks we had. When we were at the grocery store I had picked up some double chocolate chip cookies and some [Tim Tam's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Tam) to snack on during the drive. I had heard about Tim Tam's from friends of ours who had visited Australia before, and once we opened the package we couldn't stop ourselves from enjoying their chocolatey goodness. A much endorsed Australian snack!

We continued our drive from Josephine Falls down towards the [Mamu Tropical Skywalk](https://mamutropicalskywalk.com.au/). The skywalk is a series of elevated walkways that let you explore the rainforest through different levels, while also providing scenic views of the surrounding landscape. Unfortunately, it wasn't really designed for visitors to enjoy during heavy rains, so as we pulled in to the parking lot we decided that this was one site we were going to have to skip, as it was still raining and the views weren't going to be anything special.

The next stop on our trip was going to be the [Mungalli Falls](https://www.world-of-waterfalls.com/waterfalls/australia-mungalli-falls/), however we lost cell service before reaching the Mamu Skywalk and so didn't have GPS navigating us. We continued along Highway 25, hoping to see the turnoff, but we did not see the sign through the rain. We did, however, see the sign for the following location, the [Millaa Millaa Waterfall](https://www.queensland.com/en-au/attraction/millaa-millaa-falls). This waterfall is noteworthy for being the site of an Herbal Essences commercial for one of their shampoos. It was still raining, though only lightly, when we arrived at the parking lot for the falls. There was a short walk down to the viewing platform of the falls, where we were able to take a few photos. We decided against going for another swim, though it looked like it would have been a nice place to cool off if the day had been drier. After appreciating the falls for a few more minutes, we returned to the car. As we were driving back to Highway 25 we got caught behind a herd of cows that was crossing the access road, and had to slowly inch our way into the herd in order to get past them. That was a bit of an unexpected roadblock!

We continued on to our next destination, the [Curtain Fig Tree](https://www.queensland.com/en-au/attraction/curtain-fig-tree). This site was about 30 minutes from the Milla Milla falls, and we arrived shortly after 16:00. This site is home to a strangler fig whose host tree fell into another tree, leading to a set of aerial roots that form a wall (or curtain) in the forest. The [strangler fig](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strangler_fig) is notable as it has long roots that reach down from the support tree into the soil, and as it grows it can often envelop and kill off the tree it was originally growing on. The Curtain Fig Tree experienced this, however at some point in development the host tree fell into another tree, which led to the strangler fig growing onto the other tree and forming the distinct shape it has today. It is estimated to be over 500 years old, and seeing it up close is spectacular. There was a short boardwalk around the tree that we explored, took some photos, then continued on.

Our final site of the day was a platypus viewing area, a short 15 minute drive from the Curtain Fig. This site, located in Yungaburra, is home to several platypuses, and while we spent a good thirty minutes waiting near dusk we weren't able to get a glimpse of these fascinating creatures. We did get to see a few turtles, however, which was a nice consolation prize. We arrived shortly after 16:45, and left just after 17:15. After leaving the platypus viewing area we began the return drive to Cairns.

We chose to take the [Gillies Highway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gillies_Highway), which is notable for its incredibly windy and steep drive. It almost felt like driving in a video game, as the road is always turning either left or right, and you can't be looking at the fantastic views lest you drive off the road. We stopped at Heales Lookout to take a few photos of the canyon below as the sun was going down, before continuing the drive. It was lucky that we didn't have anyone behind us, as I was taking the corners pretty carefully, but we made it down safely. We returned to Cairns at around 18:45, and the sun had set during the last bit of the Gillies Highway drive. I'm glad the rain had stopped by that point, as I wouldn't want to do that drive with poor visibility or slippery conditions!

We returned to the AirBnB after our day of driving, and walked to another restaurant just minutes from our place. We chose [Ozmosis](https://www.facebook.com/Ozmosis-485425778143245/) for dinner, and enjoyed some tasty Italian food. I had their carbonara, while Todd had a prosciutto pizza. Both meals were well done and enjoyable. We returned to the AirBnB for some relaxing before heading to bed. 

