+++
date = "2018-06-26T17:50:00+02:00"
draft = false
title = "South Africa Day 12"
categories = [ "Travel", "France", "2018 South Africa Adventure" ]

+++

The last day of our trip began in the air. Our trip home had a layover in Paris, and so our flight from Johannesburg to Paris was about half over when the day started. We watched a bit of TV prior to being served dinner on the flight, then both Todd and I spent most of the remainder of the flight trying to sleep.

Our flight landed on time at Charles de Gaulle airport at 5:40 AM. Our flight to Toronto was not scheduled to depart until 1:50 PM, so instead of spending 8 hours waiting in the airport we decided to see some sights in Paris! We took a shuttle tram to the main Terminal 2E building, cleared immigration, the walked to the TGV station in Terminal 2. Here we left the glass vase we had purchased in Swaziland at a baggage storage service, as we did not want to have to carry it as we walked around. We then purchased a city transit pass, and got onto the RER B train. We were on schedule at this point, even though Terminal 2 is huge and immigration took about 30 minutes we were on the train that departed the airport at 7:05 AM. We took RER B to the St Michel/Notre Dame station and then transferred to the RER C line. It was another 3 stops before we walked out at the Eiffel Tower station. We had a 5 minute walk from the station to the tower, and we caught some glimpses of the building as we were walking. By 7:20 AM we were near the base of the tower. We popped into a cafe to get some water and some croissants, and had a quick breakfast on a park bench looking up at the Eiffel Tower. After breakfast we walked over to the park and got a much clearer view of the tower. The sun was out and it was a beautiful clear day, and it was fun to walk around a bit.

The tower didn't open until 9 AM, and we didn't have time to go up, so instead we got back onto the RER C shortly before 9 AM and took it back to the Notre Dame station. Here we got out and walked over to the Notre Dame basilica. We spent a few moments admiring the structure from the plaza out front, then walked into the  building and did a loop of the inside of the basilica. It was not too busy inside yet, which was nice as we didn't feel croweded or rushed. We spent probably 20-30 minutes in the building, and shortly before 10 AM we walked back to the RER station and got onto the RER B back towards CDG. We were lucky and got onto an express train; we were back in the airport at 10:45 AM. We reclaimed the glass vase we had left with the baggage storage service, the walked back to Terminal 2E. It was a bit confusing to find the security line, as the baggage check area for Air France was super full, but we got through immigration and security without an issue and got to our gate about 2 hours before departure.

We relaxed a bit, had a light lunch in the terminal, then got into line. Boarding took a long time, and then once we were on the plane there was an almost 30 minute delay in pushing back from the gate. We ended up taking off about 50 minutes later than scheduled. Luckily we had no issues finding space for the glass vase in the overhead bins. The flight was fine.
