+++
date = "2018-06-25T18:00:00+02:00"
draft = false
title = "South Africa Day 11"
categories = [ "Travel", "South Africa", "2018 South Africa Adventure" ]

+++

We spent the last full day of our trip to South Africa on our own. We slept in, had a lazy breakfast in the hotel restaurant, and enjoyed the freedom. Our flight was scheduled to depart Johannesburg at 6:50 PM, so we had the morning to fill. We had been granted a late check out from the hotel, coinciding with the time our shuttle was heading to the airport, and so we set off planning on leaving the hotel at 2:30 PM. I had done some researching the previous day, and decided to visit Constitution Hill. It was a 20 minute drive from the hotel, so shortly after 9:15 AM I booked us an Uber and we were off.

We arrived at the entrance to the Old Fort at Constitution Hill shortly after 9:30 AM, and set off to explore. We walked through the Old Fort, then found our way over to a small building beside the Constitutional Court that was the starting point for tours to depart. The tour started at 10 AM, so after picking up our wristbands we walked through the entrance hall of the Constitutional Court as we waited. At 9:50 we headed to the starting point of the tour and watched a short video outlining the history of the area.

The Constitution Hill area was the site of several prisons, some dating back to the early 1900's. The Old Fort was the site of the white men's prison during the apartheid area, while Block 4 and 5 were the sites of the coloured and black prisons. There was also the women's prison in the complex.

The tour started at the women's prison, where we toured through the non-white prison section and the white prison section. There were a number of informative placards that described notable political prisioners held here, along with some information about the laws and conditions that led to imprisonment. It was both disturbing and informative to see how poor the conditions were for the non-white prisoners, and how different the levels of care were based on race.

We then proceeded to the Old Fort where we saw some of the white men's prison conditions, along with the cell that Nelson Mandela had been held in for several weeks prior to his transfer to a prison in Pretoria. He was held in a room that was part of the hospital area in the white men's prison, ostensibly to isolate him from the other prisoners and to make it more difficult for an escape to occur. We read some of the letters he had written during his time in this prison, before we walked out of the Old Fort and to the Block 4 and 5.

Here we encountered the brutal conditions that the black male prisoners were held in. Medival is about the most appropriate yet also least meaningful word that can describe the prison. It really is hard to describe, it is something to be experienced.

We then walked back to the front entrance to the Constitutional Court and had the history of the courtyard explained to us. The building that used to hold black male prisoners awaiting trial used to occupy the space, however in the early 2000's it was torn down to make space for the Constitutional Court. They left the 4 staircases in place; two of them are situated in the courtyard with glass panels on top; while the remaining two were incorporated into the structure of the court building. They kept the bricks that were previously used in the awaiting trial block and reused them in the construction of the court; they also built a stairway using these bricks to symbolize the links between the past atrocities conducted on the site and the new source of protections that will prevent similar things from occurring again. We entered the court, and were able to walk into the hall where hearings are held. Our guide described a number of symbolic elements that had been incorporated into the design of the space. It was nice to be able to learn about the role of the court today and how its hearings are held.

By this point it was shortly after 12 PM, so we left the tour, took a few photos from the ramparts of the Old Fort over the city, then hailed an Uber back to the hotel. We packed up, checked out, and met up with most of the tour group that was heading home as we were mostly all booked into the same airport shuttle. We left the hotel just after 2:40, and arrived at the airport shortly after 3 PM. We said goodbye to everyone, then printed our baggage tags, cleared immigration and security, and then walked to our gate. I worked on my coding project while Todd read; we grabbed a bite to eat at a restaurant cafe at 5 PM and boarded our plane shortly after 6 PM.
