+++
date = "2018-06-16T18:15:00+02:00"
draft = false
title = "South Africa Day 2"
categories = [ "Travel", "South Africa", "2018 South Africa Adventure" ]

+++

The first day of our tour started early - we had a group meeting at 7:15 AM so we woke up at about 5:30 AM, showered, got ready, then went to the hotel dining room for breakfast at 6:30 AM. The breakfast was a buffet with a plethora of choices - I had an omlette with ham, bacon, onions, mushrooms and peppers; Todd had fruit, yoghurt, baked eggs and bacon. We went to a meeting room on the first floor shortly before 7:15, where we met our tour manager, Belinda, and the other members of the tour. Over the next 45 minutes Belinda covered a bunch of things about the tour, and several minutes before 8 we were dismissed. We went back up to our room, grabbed a sweater and camera, then went down to the waiting bus. We had been assigned a seat at the back right side of the bus; these seats rotate on a schedule to prevent conflicts over who gets which seat.

The itinery of the day was a tour of the peninsula, and we began this tour by driving around Signal Hill on Victoria Road. This gave us fantastic views of the Atlantic Ocean as we drove south from Cape Town, as the road follows the coast very closely. We drove past a number of beautiful houses built into the side of the hill. Our first stop was at Maiden's Cove, where we had views of the ocean and Camps Bay beach. A short while later we got back onto the bus and continued driving south, through Camps Bay and Hout Bay. The drive continued along Chapmans Peak drive, giving us great views of Hout Bay. We stopped at the Lookout Point on Chapmans Peak to get a great view back towards Hout Bay and the harbour. The drive continued along a narrow two lane road that looked to have been blasted out of the rock - there were several points where large metal nets were set up to catch any falling rocks, in a few places we drove through one-sided tunnels which looked to exist mostly to prevent rock slides from covering the roads. They reminded me of the snow sheds on the TransCanada highway in BC.

We reached the end of the Chapmans Peak drive and continued driving on to Simon's Town, the home of the South African Navy. This was a quaint town with a distinct British feel - the British had used this town as their naval base prior to handing it over to the South African Navy in 1957. A number of Antarctic expeditions had launched from Simon's Town, and we saw a plaque dedicated to these expeditions when we walked around Jubilee Square. The tour continued on to Boulder's Beach on the eastern side of the town. This beach is notable due to the colony of African penguins that call it home. We spent approximately an hour wandering around the boardwalks built into the sand dunes to separate the penguins from humans. It was quite amusing to watch the penguins waddle around the sand dunes - they looked even funnier when they did their half-run/half jump maneuver to get into the water. There were a number of penguin chicks that were still with their parents in various state of molt, it was interesting to see the chicks as they were losing their fuzz.

After viewing the penguins we went to lunch, where we had a tasty fish dish. The tour continued on with a drive south to the Cape of Good Hope. We followed the coast of False Bay south until we turned into the Cape of Good Hope National Park entrance. Once in the national park we drove south to the Cape of Good Hope. While we were driving to the Cape we saw several wild ostriches on the side of the road, grazing on the grasses. They were impressive to see, but we did not get out of the bus as ostiches are known to be fairly dangerous birds to run into in the wild. They have a super-sharp talon on their feet that can do a lot of damage, so we decided it was best to stay in the bus and observe from behind the glass. The bus continued on to the Cape, where we disembarked, took some photos and explored. Todd and I spent about 15 minutes hiking the rock formation at the end of the cape, and got some great shots of the ocean. We spent about half an hour at the Cape before getting back on the bus. We backtracked and went to Cape Point. This is the site of the old lighthouse that used to warn ships of the Cape; it has since been replaced by a larger lighthouse farther along the point. We had an hour here, so instead of taking the funiculiar up to the lighthouse we chose to hike instead. As we were hiking along the path to the lighthouse we walked past a number of baboons that were just chilling on the pathway. Some of the babboons had recently given birth, and there were baby baboons hanging onto their mothers. Once we reached the lighthouse we were treated to fantastic views of both the Atlantic ocean and the False Bay; we took some photos then hiked back down to the bus. 

We travelled back to Cape Town, heading to the Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden. The drive took just over an hour, and most of the bus feel asleep on the drive. We arrived at the botanical gardens shortly after 4 PM. We spent about 45 minutes walking through the gardens, learning all about the different types of plants they had present. Some of the most distinctive were the various forms of protea - the King protea is the national flower of South Africa, while others like the pincushion protea were also gorgeous. We could have easily spent a half day or more exploring the gardens, unfortunately we did not have that much time and left the gardens shortly after 5. We returned to the hotel, where we relaxed until a tour dinner at 6:45. We ate with some nice ladies from Brooklyn, being served a nice buffet with some good white wine. We returned to our room around 8, where I worked on this blog until about 9 PM then we headed to bed.

