+++
date = "2018-06-17T21:45:00+02:00"
draft = false
title = "South Africa Day 3"
categories = [ "Travel", "South Africa", "2018 South Africa Adventure" ]

+++

The second day of the tour started at a slightly more reasonable hour; we were up at 6 AM and were down for breakfast shortly after 7 AM. The bus departed at 8 AM, and we were off towards Table Mountain. The plan was to take the gondola up to the top of the mountain, unfortunately it was too windy for the gondola to run so we took a detour onto Signal Hill where we were treated to great views of Robben Island, Lion's Head and Table Mountain. I had expected Robben Island to appear similar to Alcatraz, however it was both farther out from the city and much flatter, so it was difficult to discern any structures on the island from the mainland. The views of Lion's Head and Table Mountain were both quite impressive. We spent about 15 minutes before boarding the bus and continuing on.

The itinerary of the morning was focused on touring through downtown Cape Town, and we next went to the Bo-Kaap neighbourbood. This neighbourhood is one of the older ones in Cape Town; some of the buildings were first errected in the 1760's. This neighbourhood is a very multicultural one; with several mosques being interspersed amongst the houses and shops. The buildings are painted a variety of bright colours, and the roads are still paved with cobblestones. We walked through the neighbourhood then boarded the bus and drove to the Castle of Good Hope. We passed a number of notable structures on the way, including the Foreshore Freeway Bridge, the Cape Town International Convention Centre, the statue of Jan van Riebeeck and the Adderly Street fountain. Belinda was giving us an audio tour of the city while we were passing these sites. We then proceeded on, passing by the Grand Parade, the Cape Town City Hall, then disembarked from the bus at the Iziko Slave Lodge.

We departed on foot from the Iziko Slave Lodge, first walking past St. George's Cathedral, the former parish of Desmond Tutu and the site of many anti-apartheid marches. We proceeded southwest from the cathedral along Government Avenue, walking past the National Library of South Africa and the Parliament of South Africa. Once we had passed the parliament we turned into The Company's Garden. This public park was established around one of the garden that some of the first European settlers established upon settling in Cape Town. They used the garden to grow fresh produce for ships that stopped here on their trip around the Cape of Good Hope, and even today a section of the Garden is used for growing vegetables. This park was not just a garden, however - there were a number of georgous trees and plants present. One of the most notable trees was a saffran pear tree, first planted by Jan van Riebeeck over 360 years ago. It is actually believed to be the first tree cultivated in South Africa. The tree has gotten so old that it can't hold itself up anymore, and the gardeners have constructed metal supports around the three main trunks of the tree. The garden also had a state commemorating Cecil John Rhodes, a man who envisioned a railway that would run from the Cape to Cairo, and who Rhodesia (now Zimbabwae) was named after. There was also a memorial to the South African troops who fought in the Battle of Delville Wood in WW1 in the garden. We spent about 45 minutes exploring the Company's Garden before getting back into the bus and continuing to the Victoria & Alfred Waterfront.

We arrived at the waterfront around 11:30 AM. We took a small tour of the Cape Town Diamond Museum, but it was mostly a way to try and get people to buy diamonds so we didn't stay long. Afterwards we broke away from the group and spent the afternoon on our own. We had a quick lunch at a Steers burger restaurant in the mall, the backtracked to the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa. We had first seen this building when exploring the V&A waterfront a couple of days prior, and it was notable as the museum was in a repurposed grain silo. We entered the museum just after 12:30 PM, and proceeded to spend the next 3 hours touring through the 4 floors of exhibits. The art was very impressive to see, as the museum name suggested the art was mostly contemporary with a number of unique materials and subjects being presented. There was a small collection of LGBT+ art, which was interesting to see. I found the building to be just as engaging as some of the artwork, however, and spent a fair bit of time marvelling at the structure the museum was in. The renovation of the grain silo required a large amount of concrete be removed, and as each silo was a cylindrical shape originally there were a number of interesting angles that the concrete cutting yielded. It was very cool to see how the museum fit into the space. We toured all of the galleries and left shortly before 4 PM. We caught a shuttle back to the hotel, where I proceeded to have a quick nap.

The last part of our day was spent participating in a home-hosted dinner. This was an optional part of the tour, and only 8 of us decided to participate. We were shuttled from the hotel to a family home about 20 minutes from the hotel, and proceeded to spend the next two hours eating and visiting with a family that lives in Cape Town. They cooked us a meal which consisted of a blue cheese and beef tongue salad, roasted beef and chicken with mixed vegetables and spaghetti, with a bread cake and ice cream for dessert. The food was all delicious, and it was very interesting to have a conversation with people who have lived in the city all their lives and were able to provide some insight about what life in South Africa is like.
