+++
date = "2018-06-20T21:00:00+02:00"
draft = false
title = "South Africa Day 6"
categories = [ "Travel", "South Africa", "2018 South Africa Adventure" ]

+++

The fifth day of the tour started with another early morning wake up call. We were up shortly before 5 AM and were showered and ready to go at 6 AM. We didn't have breakfast before leaving - we were instead given a packed box with food we could snack on. We loaded up into the bus and left the hotel shortly after 6 AM. We arrived at the Hwang-Imfulu private game park around 6:45 AM, and were broken up into 4 different groups - 2 groups of 10 people, and 2 groups of 9. Each group loaded into a different jeep with a ranger, and we were off just after 7 AM. The jeeps were open at the sides and had 3 rows of seating in a 3x3 configuration, giving everyone a great view of the environment around them.

We had just gotten onto the first road in the park when the jeep in front of us pulled to the side. They had spotted some monkeys playing in the trees. We were able to see them from a distance, and got a few photos, before a pair of elephants were spotted a bit up the road in the direction opposite of where we were planned to go. We drove up and were able to see the elephants using binoculars, unfortunately they were not close enough for us to photograph. After a few minutes the jeep started up and we began the drive. We were aiming to get a glimse of the "Big 5" - animals originally identified as such for being the most ferocious and difficult to kill. These 5 animals are the elephant, the rhinoscerous, the cape buffalo, the lion, and the leopard.

It was picturesque to drive through the park as the sun was rising. When we first started out the dawn had started to break but the sun had not yet risen above the horizen, however as we drove along the sun broke the dawn and the day started to warm up. It was partially cloudy so the sun wasn't very strong, but it still provided warmth when the clouds lined up properly. It was probably 15 minutes worth of driving before we encountered our first major animal - a giraffe. The jeep cut its engine and we were able to coast towards the giraffe without spooking it. We took some great photos then the giraffe wandered away and we continued on.

It was not long before we came across another giraffe, this time with a baby. We only spotted the baby for a brief moment before it wandered off behind a ridge, however the mother decided to walk towards us and even crossed in front of the jeep. We were very close to it before it wandered past us and continued walking. We drove on shortly thereafter. We drove on, through some bushes, and thanks to the keen eye of one of the people in the vehicle we saw a nyala in the bushes. We watched it come out and cross the road, then continued on.

At this point we'd been on the tour for about half an hour. We drove on, however things were sparse for probably another thirty minutes before we came across our next animal sighting. This was a pair of rhinos in the mud not far from the road - they appeared to have been sleeping or resting. The day was still a bit cool so the ranger explained that they liked to be idle when it is cool out. We got some photos and drove on. It didn't take long before we ran across another pair of rhinos, this time walking in the middle of the road. This was a great surprise, and the ranger quickly cut the engine so as to not spook them. He took down the windscreen so we were able to see the rhinos clearly through the front of the vehicle. The ranger then took off the parking brake and we slowly rolled down the hill we were on, getting us closer to the rhinos and giving us an even better view of the animals. We were able to spend several moments taking photos before the rhinos got bored and moved off the road, and the drive continued.

We turned off the paved road and began driving on a dirt road shortly after 8 AM. We drove along, and a short while later came across an elephant eating leaves off a tree right beside the road. It was a fantastic feeling to be so close to this majestic creature - watching it slowly eat the trees was a mesmerising sight. We had to move on, however, so after a few moments we did. The next moment we saw several cape buffalo in a small puddle on the other side of the road. We were able to get several good photos of the cape buffalo before they moved on. We barely started the engine before seeing more elephants back on the first side of the vehicle; this time there were several. We took a few photos then continued the drive towards our breakfast place. Shortly after 9 AM we pulled into a parking lot where we ate a hot breakfast in a small park area with picnic benches. We had a good breakfast in the bush, eating eggs, bacon, yoghurt, cheese, bread, and juice. We left the park about quarter to ten, continuing on towards the gate where the bus was parked.

We had already seen three of the big five, and were hoping we would be able to see a lion on the drive. As we drove towards the park, about fifteen minutes after leaving the park, the ranger spotted an impala standing on a plain near the road. He was curious about it since it was staring intently into the distance, and upon retrieving the binoculars he identified why - there was a lion up on a rock high above the plain. We drove a couple minutes forward along the road to get closer to the rock, then stopped and began using the binoculars to see the lion. The lion was clearly visible in the binolculars, lazing on the rock outcropping, unfortunately it was too far away to get a photo of. The lion was a female, and it had no mane. It was a great experience. We finished the drive seeing some more birds and arrived at the bus shortly after 10:45 AM.

We got into the bus and began driving towards the country of eSwatini. I fell asleep during the drive, and woke up shortly before getting to the border of our next destination. Our destination - eSwatini. The name means "Home of the Swazi", and was formerly known as Swaziland. The king had recently renamed the country, ostensibly to avoid any confusion between the country and Switzerland, however people in South Africa still referred to the country as Swaziland. We got to the border crossing shortly after noon, and cleared the South African and eSwatini borders without issue. Interestingly, the stamp we got when crossing the border still identified the country as Swaziland! We drove on for several more hours, and I continued reading "Death's End". Several hours after crossing the border we arrived at a stop where we got out and stretched our legs. This stop was the site of a candle factory, as well as a number of small local vendors. Some people purchased small souvenirs - we just walked around and experienced things. We got into the bus after an hour and continued on to our destination - a hotel in the capital of Mbabnae. The hotel was another couple of hours from the stop, and I kept reading. We arrived shortly after 5 PM, checked in, then relaxed in the hotel room before dinner.

We had a meal, just the two of us, at 7 PM. I had a local chicken curry while Todd had a chicken cordon bleu dish. Both meals were good. We got back to the room around 8 PM, played a couple rounds of cribbage - we each won a round, however neither of us had the energy for a tie-breaking round. We went to bed just after 9 PM.