+++
date = "2018-06-23T20:00:00+02:00"
draft = false
title = "South Africa Day 9"
categories = [ "Travel", "South Africa", "2018 South Africa Adventure" ]

+++

The eighth day of the tour began at a reasonable 6 AM with our wake up call. We were up, had breakfast, and on the bus just before 7:30 AM. We had a long day of driving ahead of us - our hotel for the evening was in Johannesburg and there was a 400 km drive ahead of us. The beginning of our drive covered the Panorama route, a series of fantastic natural wonders in the Mpumalanga province.

We left Hazyview and settled into the bus. I continued reading "Death's End" while Todd started reading a James Patterson novel. It was about an hour drive to our first destination - a lookout point named God's Canyon. This viewpoint looks out over the Drakensberg escarpment. It was slightly hazy when we arrived but we were still able to see the gorgeous panorama of the valley below. This stop was a quick one, and about fifteen minutes later we were back on the road.

Our next stop was at the Bourke's Luck Potholes in the Blyde river canyon. It was about a half hour to reach, so we didn't do much other than enjoy the beautiful vistas in the area. We had a longer stop of an hour here, so we had some time to explore. We walked down to the river and explored around. The potholes are so named due to the shapes left in the rock as the river cut its way through this canyon millions of years ago, and it reminded me of similar structures in Johnson's Canyon in Banff. We were able to explore the rock around the river prior to the first waterfall where the river falls down into the canyon below, and then use a series of interconnected walkways and bridges to get a better view at the canyon proper. The sun had come out and it was starting to heat up as we walked around, and it was an all around great stop.

We got back to the bus and went a short distance up the road to the Three Rondavels View Point. This viewpoint gave us a look out over the Drakensberg mountain range. This was probably the most spectacular of the three sights we had seen; we were greeted by a sweeping vista across the river valley below and a series of mountains in the background. It was almost pointless to take photos, as no camera would be able to capture the immensity of the sight, but we tried none the less. We spent about half an hour here taking in the sights before getting back on the bus and continuing on.

The drive continued for several hours. We stopped at Dullstroom, a small town in the Mpumalanga province for lunch shortly after 1 PM. This town is notable for several reasons: it has the train station with the highest elevation in South Africa, and it has some great fly fishing. Trout, in particular, is quite good here. We stopped for an hour and ten minutes for lunch and some light shopping. We ended up having lunch with the aussie and Finnish friends we had made; I ordered trout and it came as the full fish (including the head!). I had never eaten a full fish like that before, which was an experience, but the fish was quite good.

We got back onto the bus around 2:30 and continued on to Johannesburg. There was not much to see on the drive, there were a number of farms and grain silos, and for a good part of the drive it felt very similar to driving on the praries. Every once and a while we would see a series of large cooling towers; Belinda explained to us that these were cooling towers for the coal mines and not nuclear reactors (as they could have easily been mistaken for). We also saw some controlled brush fires right beside the road - this appeared to be the way they cleared grass off the median of the highway. I finished reading "Death's End" shortly after lunch, and spent some time on the drive working on my coding project. Our guide, Belinda, also discovered that my birthday had been a couple days prior, and she gave me a hard time for not letting her know.

We arrived at our hotel in Johannesburg right before 6 PM. We checked in, then went for dinner. We had pizza at the Piza-e-Vino pizza restaurant a block from our hotel. We took a quick walk around the area, then came back to the hotel. I wrote out the day's activities, then we went down for a highly recommended milkshake. I had the Elephant's Trunk, which was an Amarulla-based milkshake, while Todd had a fruit gummy one. They were both delicious. We went back to the room and relaxed and were in bed by 10 PM.