+++
date = "2017-09-24T23:55:00-00:00"
draft = false
title = "Iceland Day 5"
categories = [ "Travel", "Iceland" ]

+++

The start of the day was overcast and slightly wet, however the wind was quite a bit less intense than yesterday. We got up, made scrambled eggs for breakfast, then packed up the car and got onto the road. We were originally scheduled to go kayaking in a glacial lake near the Vatnajökull national park, however we had received a notice from the company the night before informing us that due to high winds the kayaking tour had to be cancelled. This opened up our morning and let us both sleep in a bit and explore a few random sights along the road. We got back onto the ring road and began the morning to some rain and winds that were not too strong.

Shortly after leaving Höfn the road began to climb and started following the side of the mountain (with the ocean being to the right of the car). This was the first time that the road had really been built into the side of a mountain, and it was cool to get a bit of height and seeing the ocean from a higher vantage point. We stopped at a viewing area and captured a few photos of the ocean, then continued on. As the drive continued we saw a number of waterfalls coming off the side of the mountain and running towards the ocean. It is hard to decide if they are really waterfalls, or if they are just rivers going down particularily steep mountain faces, but either way they are quite beautiful. We had seen many of these over the past few days, however this part of the island seemed to have a higher concentration of them. It could be that the rain over the past few days had caused the rivers to grow and be easier to see from the road, or it could just be a geographic difference. Either way, they were quite beautiful.

We pulled off to see one particularily impressive waterfall, snapped a few photos, then continued on. It was a good opportunity to strech the legs and capture some photos of a less recognized piece of the Icelandic countryside.

The road ended up taking us to Djúpivogur, where we got out and took a look at the fishing village. The rain was coming down lightly as we wandered around by the docks, however the rain started to pick up so we ducked into the Við Voginn restaurant and got a muffin and some coffee while we waited out the rain. Once the rain calmed down we continued exploring, and visited a [rock museum](https://www.tripadvisor.com/Attraction_Review-g315846-d6924657-Reviews-JFS_Handcraft-Djupivogur_East_Region.html), where a local of the town presents a rock garden containing stones he has collected from across the island. It was really a neat thing to see. 

We continued driving to Breiðdalsvík. This was another small fishing town in the eastern part of Iceland. The general store is kind of the site to see, however once we'd stopped in there not much else presented itself. We had lunch at the Hotel Bláfell, where I had a sheep soup. After lunch we filled up the car and continued on our way.

Our drive took us away from the coast and into the heart of the island. We went through a few tunnels, including one tunnel that was an impressive 6 km long. It wasn't much more than 90 minutes of driving before we arrvied in Egilsstaðir, the location of the AirBnB we were going to be staying at. We checked in, unpacked our things, then quickly got back into the car. It was about 4:30 PM by this point, however the clouds had cleared and the sun had come out, and we wante to make the most of it.

We drive the 30 minutes to the base of the Hengifoss waterfall, and began a late afternoon hike. This waterfall was about 2.5 km away from the parking lot, and the majority of that was uphill. We gained quite a bit of elevation, as this waterfall is actually the third highest in Iceland. Halfway along the hike we encountered the Litlanesfoss waterfall, which has the same basalt columns that we saw in Svartifoss. The last 500 m or so of the hike took us along a glacial riverbed, which was fertile ground for some impressive panoramas. The hike back to the car went quite a bit faster, which gave us time to take some neat photos of the sun as it set across the valley. We drove back into Egilsstaðir and got a load of laundry going. We all had a bunch of clothes that hadn't truly dried from the soaking they had received yesterday, so it was nice to wash them and run them through a proper dry cycle.

Once we had started our laundry we went and found dinner. We chose the Guesthouse Egilsstaðir, where we had a very nice meal. I had a very delicious beef tenderloin and beef cheek dish, with a potato cake side. It felt nice to have a good meal after enjoying a nice hike. We didn't rush through the dinner, and just enjoyed the surroundings.

After dinner, Kate and I decided to go outside and see if we could experience the northern lights. This was the first night we had where the clouds didn't completely cover the sky, so we figured that there was a decent chance we might see them. Kate had brought her tripod and was also excited to try some night photography. We went outside around 10:00 PM, and spent the first 45 minutes taking photos of the stars because we couldn't see the Aurora Borealis. The big dipper was quite visible, and it was also possible to see the milky way. There was a faint bar in the sky we thought might be the aurora, however it wasn't bright enough to tell. At just about 10:45 PM, the faint bar we had previously thought might the be aurora brightened up considerably and started 'dancing'. It was really exciting to see - we were seeing the northern lights in Iceland! We messaged to the rest of the group to come quickly, and they did. Kate got a number of cool photos of the norther lights, including some with us in them! All in all it was a very satisfying way to end a very satisfying day.

