+++
date = "2017-09-27T23:30:00-00:00"
draft = true
title = "Iceland Day 8"
categories = [ "Travel", "Iceland" ]

+++

We started our morning a bit later than usual, setting the alarm for 8:00 AM instead of the 7:00 AM that had become standard. We had a long day of driving ahead of us, with not many sites to see, so we decided to get a bit of extra rest. We were up and packed by around 9, then walked to the nearby grocery store to pick up breakfast and lunch. We ate quickly, packed up the car, and left just after 10 AM. Our destination was the west end of the island, near the Þjóðgarðurinn Snæfellsjökull national park.

The drive went well, unfortunately there isn't much to report. We saw a bunch of the northern part of the island, which felt a lot like driving in Alberta. There were a lot of cows being farmed in the first part of the day; with sheep being much less common than in the south. There was a lot of brown flowing grass, as opposed to the mossy green ground cover predominent in the south.

We stopped for lunch in Búðardalur, after about 3.5 hours of driving. Here we switched drivers; I gave Dave the keys and I went into the back seat. I spent the next hour or so updating this journal, then enjoying the views. We just ate sandwhiches that we had picked up in the grocery store we had breakfast at. Here Susan bought some fish jerky to try - she'd been eyeing it up all trip. I tried some; it wasn't bad, it was very dry though. The taste was reminiscent of the smell of fish food. We got back in the car and continued on.

We arrived in the town of Grundarfjörður at about 3:30 PM. We stopped into the grocery store to pick up some ingredients for dinner, and picked up some liquor to drink that evening at the local Vínbúðin. Just like Ontario, Iceland only sells liquor through government-run liquor stores, however they have much less generous hours than Ontario, so we had to wait until it opened at 4 PM. This gave us a chance to strech our legs a bit, so nobody was really bothered by the delay.

After we picked up something to drink, we got back into the car for the short drive over to Kirkjufellsfoss. Here we were greeted with the view of the imposing [Kirkjufell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirkjufell), a mountain rising up between the road and the ocean. This particular mountain is somewhat famous in that it appears in the later seasons of Game of Thrones as the 'arrowhead mountain' located north of the wall. We took a few photos of the mountain, then turned around to see Kirkjufellsfoss. It is a two-tier waterfall, with a small island located on the small part of the river between the two sets of falls. We walked up and around the waterfall; there is a bridge that crosses the river just before the beginning of the waterfall which gives you a great view downstream of the falls. We took several photos, then got back into the car and continued on.

By this point in the day we had driven almost halfway across the island, and had reached the western peninsula of the island. We were still on the northern side of the peninsula, and our destination was on the southern side, so we started driving south across the peninsula. We reached our destination of Arnarstapi around 6 PM. We were staying in an AirBnB just outside of town, in a cute little cottage. We unpacked the car, and settled in. Kate started making dinner, her famous chili, the rest of us relaxed and read a bit. We ate dinner around 7, then had a few drinks and just relaxed. By about 9 PM Dave, Kate and I decided to get into the hot tub and enjoy the clear night sky. Shortly after getting in, we started seeing the first faint traces of the northern lights. As the evening went on they only got stronger, and by about 10 PM they were fully visible. They were much more vibrant than our last viewing of them - greens and pinks were fully visible, and they danced around the sky. At one point they were radiating out from a central point almost directly overhead, and it provided us with a fantastic show. We stayed outside until about 11 PM, as the clouds had started rolling in and obscuring the lights. It was a much more impressive show than a couple nights earlier, and it was very fun to be able to enjoy them from the warmth of a hot tub.

